From: tale@isc.org (David Lawrence)
Date: Wed Oct 21 15:59:38 EDT 1998

     GROUP CREATION POLICIES AT THE INTERNET SOFTWARE CONSORTIUM

This document describes the policies by which the active and newsgroups
files in this directory (ftp://ftp.isc.org/pub/usenet/CONFIG) are
maintained.  It describes first the addition and removal of groups in
hierarchies that are covered, and then discusses what happens when we
become aware of a new hierarchy via a newgroup control message.

While I am the administrator for the Big 8 hierarchies (comp,
humanities, misc, news, rec, sci, soc and talk), it is my desire that
the active and newsgroups files here be complete for all publicly
available hierarchies.  To that end, I appreciate when discrepancies
with other authoritative lists are pointed out to me.

This message refers to "newgroup" and "rmgroup" control messages,
which are special types of Usenet articles that add and remove groups,
respectively.  My usage of this terminology implicitly includes
"checkgroups", another type of special Usenet article that compares an
entire list of groups with those carried by a server.  It also
includes maintenance that I do in response to messages received not
via the normal Usenet control messages, such as from a web site or
through email.

This document is expected to remain fairly static.  A separate file,
HIERARCHY-NOTES, contains information about the handling of specific
hierarchies and will be updated as necessary.

HIERARCHY MAINTENANCE

Where a central authority nominally exists for a hierarchy, I honor
the newgroups and rmgroups issued by that authority.  For example, the
group additions and removals done by Ed Hew for biz.*, or Richard
Letts for uk.*, or Dave Kristofferson for bionet.*, are honored here
as definitive.  You can see which email addresses are honored by
looking at the control.ctl file in this directory, fully known as
ftp://ftp.isc.org/pub/usenet/CONFIG/control.ctl.

Where no nominal authority exists for a hierarchy, I usually carry any
group within the hierarchy that has a proper newgroup command sent for
it.  This is mediated somewhat by whether the control message was sent
by an admin who clearly didn't understand what he was doing (as has
frequently happened with Netscape Collabra admins), whether it was
issued by someone who clearly seems to be out of his jurisdiction
(such as when a non-Japanese domain is affixed to a newgroup in
japan.*) or whether it appears that the control message was a forgery,
purely malicious or otherwise not a serious request.  This can clearly
be a subjective call, and when there is a grey area where it is
difficult to tell whether the message is legitimate then I write the
sender to discuss it.

The "alt" and "free" hierarchies are special cases.  In each
hierarchy, all newgroups are automatically executed regardless of
the mediating factors named above, and all rmgroups are ignored.

All newsgroup names consist of components, which are the elements of
the name between the dots.  For example, "news.announce.newgroups" has
three components, "news", "announce" and "newgroups.  I do not add
groups that do not conform to the following standard for Usenet group
names:

  + a component MUST contain at least one letter
  + a component MUST not contain uppercase letters
  + a component MUST begin with a letter or digit
  + sequences 'all' and 'ctl' MUST not be used as components
  + the name must have at least two components
  + the first component MUST begin with a letter
  + the first component MUST not be "control" or "to".

Those criteria are based on rules written by Henry Spencer for the
Internet draft standard that is to replace RFC 1036.

I use an additional criteria that is addressed by the standard but
still a matter of some debate -- the limit on the length of a
component.  The de facto limit was 14 octets for over a decade and a
half.  It is currently proposed that this be lifted to a "soft" limit
of 30 octets (eg, it is recommended that name components be kept under
30 octets, but it would not be illegal to have an even longer
component).  There has not been a lot of discussion on why that length
was chosen, and to be conservative (since the limit may be lowered
again), I am now allowing newsgroup name elements up to 20 characters.
Entire newsgroup names are limited to 80 characters, rather than the
soft limit of 72 characters proposed by the standard, because two
existing non-joke groups have names longer than 72 characters.

Control message issuers should know that I usually process
"checkgroups" messages more quickly than requests whose pgp signatures
failed or whose sender information did not match what I have in
control.ctl.  I like it very much when the central administrator for a
hierarchy issues a checkgroups once a month, because it helps me be
sure that I have not fallen out of sync.

NEW HIERARCHIES

When I get a newgroup for a top level hierarchy that I do not have
information about, I send the issuer a form message similar to the
following, along with a copy of the newgroup we received:

  Did you mean to forward this off-site?  If you did, please send me a
  list of the groups in the hierarchy with appropriate newsgroups file
  descriptions.  We would be happy to carry the hierarchy at the
  Internet Software Consortium, which many sites around the world use
  to manage their active files.  If you did not mean for this to get
  out, please recheck your configuration and post a message to
  news.admin.hierarchies about the accidental leakage of local control
  messages.  Thanks.

If the Message-ID is such that the newgroup was apparently created via
INN's makegroup command (which has not shipped with INN for several
releases now), I include this paragraph:

  By the way, if you did not mean for it to go off-site then I strongly
  recommend that you never use INN's "makegroup" to create groups.  Use
  "ctlinnd newgroup" to make a group on your local server.

If the body text or Distribution header are such that Collabra is
implicated, I'll send this additional text:

  By the way, if you did not mean for it to go off-site then I strongly
  recommend that you never use the Netscape Collabra Server for creating
  groups.  It has a nasty habit of sending control messages worldwide.

More than half the time the person who sent it either never responds
or responds that it should not have gotten out.  Sometimes the mail to
the sender totally bounces.  For all of those situations I do not add
the group.  For those rare occasions when I get an affirmative reply,
I add the entire hierarchy per whatever they say is the entire set of
valid groups within it.

THE NEWSGROUPS FILE

The newsgroups file is maintained by using the "For your newsgroups
file:" lines from the individual newgroups that make each group, or by
the entire list provided in a checkgroups message.

As far as the format of the newsgroups file is concerned, there's a
format I'd like to see for each line.  Unfortunately I have not had
time in a very long time to fix up the lines that are being
automatically included from newgroup messages.  This information is
provided so that control message senders can craft better control
messages.

Here's what I would like to see for each line:

group.name<tabs>description.[ (Moderated)]

There should be one or more hard tabs (assume 8 column tab stops) to
get to a description; if the group.name is more than 24 characters,
just one tab.  The description should start with a capital and end in
a period and not be more than 56 characters (80 - 24) long.  If the
group is moderated, it should have " (Moderated)" following the
period, not counted as part of the length of the description.  The
goal is to keep the total line under 80 columns, so if the group name
is 25 characters long you'd have eight less description characters to
work with.

Some over-long descriptions could be made to easily fit the length by
dropping "puff" phrases like "Discussion of" which don't meaningfully
contribute to the description.  Others are usually pretty easy to get
to no more than column eighty, except when the group names start
getting really long.  Hopefully then the group name itself contains
quite a bit of description.
